Todays Medication.

In this day of designer drugs I thought I would share about an old standby especially since I have not heard it shared at a Tres Dias team meeting before.

Salicylic Acid

C H  O
 9  8 4

Hippocrates, a Greek physician, wrote in the 5th century BC about a bitter powder extracted from willow bark that could ease aches and pains and reduce fevers. This remedy is also mentioned in texts from ancient Sumer, Lebanon, and Assyria. The Cherokee and other Native Americans used an infusion of the bark for fever and other medicinal purposes for centuries.[2] The medicinal part of the plant is the inner bark and was used as a pain reliever for a variety of ailments. The Reverend Edward Stone, a vicar from Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire, England, noted in 1763 that the bark of the willow was effective in reducing a fever.[3]

The active extract of the bark, called salicin, after the Latin name for the white willow (Salix alba), was isolated to its crystalline form in 1828 by Henri Leroux, a French pharmacist, and Raffaele Piria, an Italian chemist. Piria was able to convert the substance into a sugar and a second component, which on oxidation becomes salicylic acid.

Salicylic acid was also isolated from the herb meadowsweet (Filipendula ulmaria, formerly classified as Spiraea ulmaria) by German researchers in 1839. While their extract was somewhat effective, it also caused digestive problems such as gastric irritation, bleeding, diarrhea, and even death when consumed in high doses.


Todays Meditation.

Preparing for this meditation has been extremely helpful to me.  Sorry if you do not get anything out of it.

Suffering from Grace Attention Deficit Disorder (GADD).

Suffering from Extreme Grace Attention Deficit Disorder (EGADD).

Computer Engineer by trade.

My last name is Bergman and that would indicate a German background.

My mothers maiden name was Colton and that would indicate Irish background.

So I have this struggle.

German vs. Irish.

Goose-step vs. Celtic Dance.

Following the leader loyally vs. declaring Independence with a volley of Molotov cocktails.

Engineer with precision vs. telling stupid jokes.

The two natures are contrary.  This seems to parallel the struggle between the flesh and spirit.

Wanting control vs. walking by faith.

Wanting to make a good show in the flesh vs. Crucifying the flesh.

Being justified by works vs. being justified by faith.  

A verse that was brought to my attention my senior year in college, a month or two before graduation.

Gal 3:1 You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified?
Gal 3:2 This is the only thing I want to find out from you: did you receive the Spirit by the works of the Law, or by hearing with faith?
Gal 3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?

Another verse from Galatians.

Gal 5:1 It was for freedom that Christ set us free; therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery.
Gal 5:2 Behold I, Paul, say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you.
Gal 5:3 And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision, that he is under obligation to keep the whole Law.
Gal 5:4 You have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by law; you have fallen from grace.
Gal 5:5 For we through the Spirit, by faith, are waiting for the hope of righteousness. 

However, are we to sit around being perfected by the Spirit?

Let us skim through the Epistles of Paul for a couple of minutes.

Is anyone still alive?

Adam - Creation and Fall
Noah - Judgment and Grace
Abraham - Promise.
Joseph - Hardship/Rescue for Joseph.
Joseph - Hardship/Rescue for Israel and family.
Israel and Moses. Hardship/Rescue.
Israel and Moses. Judgment/Redemption.
Joshua and Judges. Judgment/Redemption.
Joshua and Judges. Judgment/Redemption.
Joshua and Judges. Judgment/Redemption.
Joshua and Judges. Judgment/Redemption.
Joshua and Judges. Judgment/Redemption.
Samuel, Kings, Chronicles. Good King, Bad King, Prophet.
Samuel, Kings, Chronicles. Good King, Bad King, Prophet.
Samuel, Kings, Chronicles. Good King, Bad King, Prophet.
Samuel, Kings, Chronicles. Good King, Bad King, Prophet.
Samuel, Kings, Chronicles. Good King, Bad King, Prophet.
Jeremiah Exile.
Nehemiah Return.

There seems to be a constant theme here.

Hosea 1
Hosea 2
Hosea 3

John 15










perl -i -p -e 's/\([A-Za-z][A-Za-z]\)//g;' Hosea.txt
perl -i -p -e 's/\([A-Za-z]\)//g;'         Hosea.txt


Hosea 14
Israel's Future Blessing
    1Return, O Israel, to the LORD your God,
         For you have stumbled because of your iniquity.
    2Take words with you and return to the LORD.
         Say to Him, "Take away all iniquity
         And receive us graciously,
         That we may present the fruit of our lips.
    3"Assyria will not save us,
         We will not ride on horses;
         Nor will we say again, 'Our god,'
         To the work of our hands;
         For in You the orphan finds mercy."
    4I will heal their apostasy,
         I will love them freely,
         For My anger has turned away from them.
    5I will be like the dew to Israel;
         He will blossom like the lily,
         And he will take root like the cedars of Lebanon.
    6His shoots will sprout,
         And his beauty will be like the olive tree
         And his fragrance like the cedars of Lebanon.
    7Those who live in his shadow
         Will again raise grain,
         And they will blossom like the vine.
         His renown will be like the wine of Lebanon.
    8O Ephraim, what more have I to do with idols?
         It is I who answer and look after you
         I am like a luxuriant cypress;
         From Me comes your fruit.
    9Whoever is wise, let him understand these things;
         Whoever is discerning, let him know them
         For the ways of the LORD are right,
         And the righteous will walk in them,
         But transgressors will stumble in them.


106 Nahum 3:4
All because of the many harlotries of the harlot,The charming one, the mistress of sorceries,Who sells nations by her harlotriesAnd families by her sorceries.


107 Hebrews 11:31
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with those who were disobedient, after she had welcomed the spies in peace.

108 James 2:25
In the same way, was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way?

109 Revelation 17:1
[ The Doom of Babylon ] Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, "Come here, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters,

110 Revelation 17:5
and on her forehead a name was written, a mystery, " BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH."

111 Revelation 17:15
And he said to me, "The waters which you saw where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.

112 Revelation 17:16
"And the ten horns which you saw, and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh and will burn her up with fire.

113 Revelation 19:2
BECAUSE HIS JUDGMENTS ARE TRUE AND RIGHTEOUS; for He has judged the great harlot who was corrupting the earth with her immorality, and HE HAS AVENGED THE BLOOD OF HIS BOND-SERVANTS ON HER."

In this day of designer drugs I thought I would share about an old standby especially since I have not heard it shared at a Tres Dias team meeting yet.

Salicylic acid

Hippocrates, a Greek physician, wrote in the 5th century BC about a bitter powder extracted from willow bark that could ease aches and pains and reduce fevers. This remedy is also mentioned in texts from ancient Sumer, Lebanon, and Assyria. The Cherokee and other Native Americans used an infusion of the bark for fever and other medicinal purposes for centuries.[2] The medicinal part of the plant is the inner bark and was used as a pain reliever for a variety of ailments. The Reverend Edward Stone, a vicar from Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire, England, noted in 1763 that the bark of the willow was effective in reducing a fever.[3]

The active extract of the bark, called salicin, after the Latin name for the white willow (Salix alba), was isolated to its crystalline form in 1828 by Henri Leroux, a French pharmacist, and Raffaele Piria, an Italian chemist. Piria was able to convert the substance into a sugar and a second component, which on oxidation becomes salicylic acid.

Salicylic acid was also isolated from the herb meadowsweet (Filipendula ulmaria, formerly classified as Spiraea ulmaria) by German researchers in 1839. While their extract was somewhat effective, it also caused digestive problems such as gastric irritation, bleeding, diarrhea, and even death when consumed in high doses.


German vs. Irish.

Control vs. Faith.

Engineer vs. stupid jokes.

Suffering from Grace Attention Defficet Disorder (GADD).

Suffering from Extreme Grace Attention Deffecet Disorder (EGADD).

A verse that was brought to my attention my senior year in college, a month or two before graduation.

Gal 3:1 You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified?
Gal 3:2 This is the only thing I want to find out from you: did you receive the Spirit by the works of the Law, or by hearing with faith?
Gal 3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?

What is grace?

Chen - grace, favor, goodwill.  To find favor in the eyes of someone, to be accepted by him

Gen 6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

In order to understand my currently delema let me back up and start at the beginiing.

I was born.  Bergman/Colton.  Gergman/Irish.  Loyal/Sepratist.  And so the conflict starts.

My folks divorced when I was about 8 years old.

I was introduced to the LORD by my sister and brother in-law soon after.

I made a decsicion for the LORD in High school.  Signs of spiritual activity included an interest in reading the bible and going to church ocassionally.

Something not quit right though.  I remember wanting to show my parents how wrong they were to get a divorse and that I was going to show them how being a christian was the way to go.

Senior year in High School was not a good year.

That lasted until right before my senior year in college.

Sometime in October 1985 I broke down in front of the LORD and confessed that I was no better then my parents and that I had messed up, big time.

Something stranged happend over the next couple of months.  Change in type of music I liked.  Found a church to go to.  Got baptised.

What to do after I graduated was a challenge.

Standing at a look out crying and watching vultures.

Character sketch on eagles mysteriously appeared before me.

Isaiah 40:30-31 Yet those who wait for the LORD will gain new strength;They will mount up with wings like eagles,They will run and not get tired,They will walk and not become weary.

November 1986 received a job.

April 1987 received a Fiancee.

August 1987 received a Wife.

November 1988 received first Son.

Life between 1988 and now characterized by highs and lows.  Pride and humility.  Working in my own strength and relying on the LORD.

Tried to get a good picture of how to be a christian from those around me.

Many church fallouts and splits over the years. Huh?!  What is up with that?

Positive notes: Tres Dias, IBLP Basic Seminar, Advanced Seminar and ATI Conferences.  These may seem to be at 90 degrees to each other also.

Again Galatians

Gal 3:1 You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified?
Gal 3:2 This is the only thing I want to find out from you: did you receive the Spirit by the works of the Law, or by hearing with faith?
Gal 3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?

So are we to just let the Spirit do its work?  Just sit around being perfected.

I took a look at the ending of some of the epistles of Paul and took note of the some of things Paul writes.

(TAKE A LOOK AT EPISTLES).


Abide. Meno

 to remain, abide

a) in reference to place

1) to sojourn, tarry

2) not to depart

a) to continue to be present

b) to be held, kept, continually

b) in reference to time

1) to continue to be, not to perish, to last, endure

a) of persons, to survive, live

c) in reference to state or condition

1) to remain as one, not to become another or different

2) to wait for, await one
